# Idea around the whole project

(March 15, 2026)
So originally my plan with this whole journey was to make a "basic" .md parser. Sounds simply right? I'll be honest and just say I was a bit naive and as you will see in this project and even in my profile I have another ".md parser". That is a way simpler non AST design and is exactly why I landed here. As of today I am maybe 4-5 days into this redo of the project with already a rewrite of the entire thing as a AST but clearly having a lot of trouble. Taken me until the 3rd rewrite of the AST attempts in these few days to figure out the proper nesting need for this project. Regardless I am at the point where I have the proper siblings(inline initiations) being nested inside the parents(blocks). This allows me to now create a Renderer to now take this tree and translate it into HTML. The largest problem I can see in the future is getting the lists to properly link and nest but that is a whole different thing to figure out once I get the render working for 90% of the normal basic stuff(Headers, blocks, and inline items such as "*" or "~~". Ending the day with a good project that can do the basic parsing without the lists working properly or nesting properly.

### I will not be making it so you can make lists indented. Sorry....
At least not in the beginning that will not be my focus. Just getting them working will be a miracle to me. So basic expectation is getting lists to work as headers and then nest in those until double enter or "\n\n"..... i think... or maybe nest within the siblings in the parent idk I'll figure it out because the first way leaves a huge gap..... thinking out loud

## Why am I even doing this?

The entire idea for this came out fo the desire to learn JS and everything around it. Seemed like throwing myself into something I could conceptually draw, but needed to learn all the details of syntax for, would be an amazing learning process. It certainly has been so far and im sure will continue to be but it is just for now about getting progress and sticking with it and not letting AI write the project. Eventually the project is going to be a basis for an "Obsidian" clone which im hoping will force me to either use or make a framework along with teaching me electron and some other things. I also have plans to make a AI autocomplete for your notes similar to Copilot. That I already "vibe-coded" a basic functional version but I want to learn how to get to the level to build it myself into my own Obsidian "clone." The final plan being to make the Obsidian clone and to make an Obsidian Plugin that does just that, have a note specific "Copilot". I am by no means going at this 100% by myself but it is basically 90%-95% my logic and coding. I do have things I have drawn which I will include in a folder later I just haven't set that up yet but absolutely will be.

# Current state

The project is currently in a state of basic block and line parsing with no functional lists or list nesting or anything deeper than that. I will probably get it to a point eventually of having the lists nest properly and also having more things included like emojis, links, and possibly tables if im feeling frisky. Will add more features as I build out the Obsidian clone mentioned above. If you would like to keep up on the progress just look for the "Obsidian_clone" repo in my profile.